= DESCRIPTION:

Recipes for automating common Windows system configuration and software install.

= REQUIREMENTS:

== Platform:

* 'macrdc' - MacOSX

* Windows 2000 or higher for the rest

= ATTRIBUTES: 

XXX see attributes/*.rb for now.

= USAGE:

== 'spork'

NOTE: this command will be replaced by: http://tickets.opscode.com/browse/CHEF-1569

Utility to prepare remote Windows machines for cooking with Chef,
see: http://github.com/dougm/site-cookbooks/blob/master/windows/files/default/README.rdoc

== 'registry' provider

Create and modify registry keys.  Example:

  #disable screen saver lock
  windows_registry 'HKU\Administrator\Control Panel\Desktop' do
    values 'ScreenSaverIsSecure' => 0
  end

== 'shortcut' provider

Create a Windows shortcut (.lnk)

== 'unzip' provider

Pure-ruby unzip used by several recipes.

== 'windows_privileged' library

Elevate privileges for the current process for tasks such as loading Registry Hives from disk, rebooting the system, etc.

== 'chef_client' recipe

Run chef-client as a Windows service.  Depends on .NET Framework, which can be installed with the windows::dotnetfx recipe.

== 'proxy' recipe

Configure system proxy settings if Chef config 'http_proxy' is set.

== 'activate' recipe

Activates Windows "online" if not already activated.

== 'update' recipe

Download and install Windows updates.

== 'rdp' recipe

Enable Remote Desktop

== 'dotnetfx' recipe

Download and install .NET Framework Version 2.0 only if no other .NET Framework version is already installed.

== 'sysinternals' recipe

Download and install the Sysinternals suite, see: http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/bb842062.aspx

== 'bginfo' recipe

Creates a shortcut link to run bginfo in you startup folder.

== 'cmake' recipe

Download/install cmake and update system PATH.

== 'erlang' recipe

Download/install Erlang/OTP and update system PATH.

== 'git' recipe

Download/install msysgit, update system PATH and configure global core autocrlf setting.

== 'ant' recipe

Download/install Apache Ant, update system PATH and set ANT_HOME system environment variable.

== 'maven' recipe

Download/install Apache Maven, update system PATH and set M2_HOME system environment variable.

== 'java' recipe

Download/install Java JDK, update system PATH and set JAVA_HOME system environment variable.

== 'lua' recipe

Download/install Lua.

== 'perl' recipe

Download/install ActivePerl.

== 'python'

Download/install Python and update system PATH.

== 'xemacs'

Download/install XEmacs.

== 'gnuwin32'

Download/install gnuwin32 packages (dmidecode by default) and update system PATH.

== 'winrm'

Configure winrm settings.  Example role:

  name "winrm"
  run_list "winrm"

  override_attributes \
  :winrm => {
    :config => {
      :service => {
        :allowUnencrypted => true,
        :enableCompatibilityHttpListener => true,
        :enableCompatibilityHttpsListener => true,
        :auth => {
          :basic => true
        }
      },
      :winrs => {
        :MaxMemoryPerShellMB => 300
      }
    }
  }

See the knife-windows gem for great victory.

== 'rbdevkit'

Download/install the RubyInstaller DevKit for building native gems on Windows.

== 'mingw'

Download/install mingw and update system PATH.

== 'macrdc'

Download/install Remote Desktop Connection Client for Mac and generate ~/Documents/RDC\ Connections/*.rdp for each Windows node in the Chef server's inventory.  For use like so:

  % open ~/Documents/RDC\ Connections/some-hostname.rdp

= LICENSE & AUTHOR:

Author:: Doug MacEachern (<dougm@vmware.com>)
Copyright:: 2010, VMware, Inc

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
